# A1 - Event Management

GROUP1714, 14/02/2018

* Daniel Ribeiro de Pinho - up201505302@fe.up.pt

* Francisco José Sousa Silva - up201502860@fe.up.pt

* Rui André Rebolo Fernandes Leixo - up201504818@fe.up.pt

* Vitor Emanuel Fernandes Magalhães - up201503447@fe.up.pt

## Goals, business context and environment
The intent of this project is to provide the clients with a sense of community and social engagement for creating and managing events in a collaborative way. This can be useful for businesses to create meetings while interacting with customers. Additionally, this can be of use to end users, to facilitate communication and interactions within their social circles.

## Motivation
Given this, our desire is to learn and develop a relatively complex website in order to comprehend the struggles and difficulties inherent to large-scale web projects, as well as to acquire more experience regarding said projects.

## Main Features
The system will allow Visitors to have an account of their own, being able to sign in after creating an account. Members (authenticated users) will be able to create events and manage them, by editing any of its properties: time, date, location, permissions, category and pricing (using the PayPal API), as well as having the possibility to share the event and invite other Members.

At the landing page, Visitors will find a link for registration or login, events advertisements and a search form, whereas a Member will have his/hers event&#39;s feed.

Each event can be private (requiring an invitation) or public (anyone logged in is able to RSVP). 
Regardless, there will be an external link to lodgings, information about the venue (including available seats, if applicable) and its location (using the Google Maps API), as well as details about the weather forecast for the event&#39;s duration. In some events, there may be a link to a ticket seller, depending on the situation. Every public event will also have links that can be shared in social networks and will be accessible by anyone, even if they aren&#39;t logged in. Furthermore, any member invited to the event or participating in the event can comment on said event, review it, add files and create polls.

The system will support a search feature, which the Member/Visitor may use to find an event or another Member. Such search may be used with filters to enhance results. The search bar can be fed the name of the event or its location, whereas the filters will include category, pricing and distance radius from a location (for example, a Member searching for events within 10km of Porto will find events in Gaia).

After logging in, a Member will have displayed, in his/her homepage, all updates from events, such as new comments and changes on the event. It will also include buddies&#39; events and suggested events, according to their preferred category(ies).

Every Member will have, linked to their account, their real name, their login credentials (username and password), the Member&#39;s current location, used to advertise events, a profile picture, and an e-mail address.

The advertisement feature allows the Member to know current nearby events. These events may have similar categories that the Member likes. A Member may also be a part of a community. A community is a set of members that can be invited as a whole to an event within said community. External events won&#39;t be able to invite a whole community.

Finally, a Member will have a History: every event that said Member has been invited to or has participated in gets archived here.

Each Member can have multiple relationships with other members, thus being able to see their buddies&#39; events. These relationships improve the event&#39;s visibility, being suggested to Members who are buddies with other Members in attendance.

## User Profiles
There are three types of access groups: Visitors, Members and Admins.

A Visitor can access the website, but is only able to search for public events and view them. In order to participate, said Visitor has to login or register. Only Visitors are allowed to create an account.

A Member can participate in an event, create one and be invited to other events.

An Admin is a Member with full access to the website and is able to edit and delete any event.

### Changelog

1. Clarification regarding who can create an account
2. Event search has a more detailed explanation
3. Added home page details for Members
4. Community events are created within said community and they cant be invited as a whole
5. Added payment and maps API
6. Changed intervenients's names
